Lands back in the cart, why is that?
Well it's true that while the ball was in the air
this guy was moving forward
but both the ball and the cart, because they are here together
have the same horizontal speed
and by shooting the ball up in the air well that doesn't change the fact
that it has horizontal speed going this way.
So as the cart moves forward
and for the amount of time it takes for the ball to go up and down,
the ball is also moving forward in that same amount of time.
Now let's do something even more interesting.
Let's have the cart.
Whoops. That looks very good
Let's have the cart accelerate.
So I will prop this guy up
with some books
and now we have a ramp, so now the cart is accelerating.
The question is, now the ball will be shot up in the air
with some horizontal speed
the cart also has that horizontal speed
but while the ball is in the air
the cart is accelerating
will the ball land back in the cart?
Well let's find out.
Landed back in the cart!
How can that be? This guy was accelerating down the ramp.
Well there are two ways to think about it.
One is, well the ball was accelerating too.
A simpler way to think about it, in my view is that
yes this guy was accelerating, so he is moving faster
but the ball when he landed back in cart the cart was at a lower height.
So the ball spent more time in the air
so the ball also had more time to move forward.